# Rob Wood: Digital Engineering Artist

<a  href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/virtualstyle?trk=profile-badge">Rob on LinkedIn</a></div>

#### Driven by an Outlier Intellect and a Passion for Creating and Delivering Joy for Users, Clients, Developers, and Leadership

#### From Architecting Cloud Systems to Engineering Composable Applications, Rob’s Passion is Producing Elegant Software and OperationalExcellence 

Rob is a dynamic Cloud Architect and Software Engineer with over 20 years of extensive industry experience, his skills span the full breadth of the IT spectrum, from visionary systems architecture to exceptional software engineering skills. His career has been marked by a relentless pursuit of innovation, leadership, and mentorship, positioning him as a transformative force in the tech landscape. With expansive expertise in designing, scaling, and securing cloud-native solutions on Amazon Web Services (AWS), Rob has consistently driven transformative change, streamlining cloud migrations and engineering high-performance distributed systems that significantly enhance business outcomes.

As a master of AWS and DevOps practices, Rob possesses a profound understanding of serverless architectures, container orchestration, infrastructure as code (IaC), CI/CD automation, and cloud security. His ability to architect scalable and highly available systems has resulted in mission-critical applications capable of handling a staggering 6TB of traffic per month, securing multi-million dollar contracts, and successfully modernizing legacy applications into secure, scalable serverless, and containerized solutions. 

Rob is a champion of operational excellence, continuously striving for developer velocity and automation. His initiatives have doubled developer productivity and morale in some teams he has led. He empowers and inspires high-impact teams to autonomous innovation and technical mastery while fostering a collaborative environment that encourages continuous improvement. Whether mentoring engineers in cloud-native best practices or architecting next-generation platforms, Rob's commitment to refining code culture and enhancing developer experience is unwavering.

A relentless problem-solver and technologist, Rob excels in re-engineering applications into cost-efficient, scalable microservices and optimizing cloud infrastructure for performance, resilience, and security. His clarity, precision, and technical brilliance ensure that strategic transformation starts from day one, making continual improvement a routine aspect of his teams' operations. As a driving force behind maximizing resilience, agility, and business continuity, he focuses on refining cloud security, stability, and incident response, leading to the development of ephemeral, stateless, scalable, and future-proof architectures.

Rob’s professional journey includes significant roles in various esteemed organizations. Most recently, as Senior Group Leader and Lead Developer at Marketing for Change Co., he spearheaded transformational initiatives that fostered a culture of continuous improvement. He led the migration to an AWS Control Tower organization to enhance security, management, and compliance. Furthermore, he initiated the adoption of Infrastructure as Code (IaC) using AWS CDK, significantly improving disaster recovery capabilities and reducing configuration drift. His architectural prowess was evident when he re-engineered applications as serverless Lambdas, utilizing API Gateway to enhance simplicity, scalability, and cost-efficiency. His efforts in mentoring engineers in cloud-native best practices cultivated a DevOps mindset, contributing to a modern engineering culture and significant business growth.

Before his role at Marketing for Change Co., Rob contracted as a Product Engineer at Netflix, where he developed a React UI and Spring Boot API, achieving a remarkable reduction in errors by 99% and a 75% decrease in codebase size and complexity. His commitment to system reliability was demonstrated by his lead role in updating the server, devops tooling, and local development environment to move the live application environents, deployment pipelines, and development processes into adherence with Netflix's "Paved Path" system of software development tools and processes,  ensuring long-term maintainability, and enhancing overall system performance.

Before his time at Netflix, Rob excelled as a contract Data Engineer at SunRun, optimizing data pipelines for nationwide solar panel analytics, resulting in a fourfold performance improvement. His earlier roles showcased his versatility as he developed innovative solutions for various organizations, including leading an effort at Our Town America to maximize revenue through enhanced processing of the data for print runs and mailings enabling complete control over targeting demographics and maximizing mailing of national client's materials, as well as creating self-service user interfaces that enabled clients to maximize their coverage, and thus Our Town's profits.

Throughout his career, Rob has maintained a passion for continuous learning and improvement, mentoring junior developers and promoting best practices in code quality. His comprehensive skill set spans a vast array of programming languages, frameworks, platforms, and tools, including JavaScript, Zsh/Bash, Python, PHP, Perl, and C/C++/C#, as well as cloud and DevOps technologies like AWS, CDK, and Docker. His skills with development tools and containerized development environments is a constant bonus, whatever he's doing, as his automations and boilerplate save hours for everty dev on his team, every day.  

Rob holds a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science from Eastern Kentucky University, where he was recognized as an EKU Honors Scholar, member ofLambda Sigma, and published in the student literary journal and newspaper. His commitment to excellence, combined with his innovative mindset and dedication to mentoring, positions him as an invaluable asset in cloud architecture and software engineering.

In a rapidly evolving technological landscape, Rob remains committed to empowering teams, leading transformative initiatives, and delivering exceptional solutions that optimize performance and drive business growth. His intelligence, engaging demeanor, and thoughtful approach to challenges make him a respected leader and visionary in the tech community.
